---
title: "Teaching in the Savior’s Way — Overview"
part: "Introduction"
source_url: "https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/manual/teaching-in-the-saviors-way-2022?lang=eng"
---

# Teaching in the Savior’s Way — Overview

TEACHING IN THE SAVIOR'S WAY Teaching in the Savior's Way For All Who Teach in the Home and in the Church

Teaching in the Savior's Way For All Who Teach in the Home and in the Church Published by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Salt Lake City, Utah

© 2024 by Intellectual Reserve, Inc. All rights reserved. Version: 1/22 PD80000498 000 Printed in the United States of America

Message from the First Presidency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1 The Purpose of Teaching in the Savior's Way . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2 How This Resource Is Organized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2 Overview of Christlike Teaching . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2 Part 1: Focus on Jesus Christ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5 Teach about Jesus Christ No Matter What You Are Teaching . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6 Emphasize the Example of Jesus Christ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6 Teach about the Titles, Roles, and Attributes of Jesus Christ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7 Look for Symbols That Testify of Jesus Christ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7 Help Learners Come unto Jesus Christ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8 Help Learners Recognize the Lord's Love, Power, and Mercy in Their Lives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8 Help Learners Strengthen Their Relationship with Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Help Learners Intentionally Strive to Be More like Jesus Christ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Part 2: Principles of Christlike Teaching . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11 Love Those You Teach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12 The Savior Saw Divine Potential in Everyone He Taught . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12 The Savior Knows Us and Understands Our Circumstances, Needs, and Strengths . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 The Savior Prayed for Those He Taught . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13 The Savior Ensured That All Felt Respected and Valued . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13 The Savior Expressed His Love for Those He Taught . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14 Teach by the Spirit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16 The Savior Prepared Himself Spiritually to Teach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16 The Savior Was Always Ready to Respond to the Needs of Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 The Savior Provided Opportunities for People to Be Taught by the Holy Ghost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17 The Savior Helped Others Seek, Recognize, and Act on Personal Revelation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 The Savior Bore Testimony to Those He Taught . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19 Teach the Doctrine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 The Savior Learned the Doctrine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20 The Savior Taught from the Scriptures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21 The Savior Helped People Seek, Recognize, and Understand Truth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21 The Savior Taught Truths That Lead to Conversion and Build Faith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22 The Savior Helped People Find Personal Relevance in His Doctrine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23 Invite Diligent Learning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24 The Savior Helped Others Take Responsibility for Their Learning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24 The Savior Encouraged Others to Come to Know Him by Studying His Word . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25 The Savior Invited Others to Prepare to Learn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

The Savior Encouraged Others to Share the Truths They Were Learning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26 The Savior Invited Others to Live What He Taught . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Part 3: Practical Helps and Suggestions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29 Suggestions for a Variety of Teaching Settings and Learners . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Home and Family . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30 Teaching Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Teaching Y outh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33 Teaching Adults . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33 Teaching People with Disabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34 Virtual Teaching . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35 Sample Lesson-Planning Outline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36 Improving as a Christlike Teacher—A Personal Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .37 Teacher Council Meetings—For Parents and Called Teachers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38 Teacher Council Meetings for Parents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38 Teacher Council Meetings for Called Teachers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38 Format for the Meetings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39 For Leaders—Orienting and Supporting Teachers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40

The Purpose of Teaching in the Savior's Way The principles described in this resource can help every gospel teacher teach in the Savior's way. That includes parents, ministering brothers and sisters, seminary and institute teachers, and anyone whose Church calling gives them opportunities to teach. You can study this resource on your own or use it to guide discussions with others about how to become a better teacher. For example, this resource could be used in home evenings, presidency meetings, ward or stake council meetings, seminary and institute in-service meetings, and teacher council meetings (see “For Leaders—Helping Teachers Succeed”). How This Resource Is Organized Part 1 emphasizes the importance of focusing on Jesus Christ whenever we teach the principles of His gospel. This section describes what we teach. Part 2 emphasizes the principles of Christlike teaching. This section describes how we teach. Part 3 gives practical suggestions to help teachers apply the principles of Christlike teaching. Overview of Christlike Teaching The following charts provide an overview of the principles taught in this resource.

Overview of Christlike Teaching Focus on Jesus Christ Teach about Jesus Christ No Matter What You Are Teaching Help Learners Come unto Jesus Christ Emphasize the example of Jesus Christ. Help learners recognize the Lord's love, power, and mercy in their lives. Teach about the titles, roles, and attributes of Jesus Christ. Help learners strengthen their relationship with Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ. Look for symbols that testify of Jesus Christ. Help learners intentionally strive to be more like Jesus Christ. Principles of Christlike Teaching Love Those You Teach Teach by the Spirit Teach the Doctrine Invite Diligent Learning See learners the way God sees them. Prepare yourself spiritually. Learn the doctrine of Jesus Christ for yourself. Help learners take responsibility for their learning. Seek to know them— understand their circumstances, needs, and strengths. Always be ready to respond to spiritual promptings about the needs of learners. Teach from the scriptures and the words of latter-day prophets. Encourage learners to come to know the Savior by studying the gospel daily. Pray for them by name. Create settings and opportunities for learners to be taught by the Holy Ghost. Help learners seek, recognize, and understand truths in the scriptures. Invite learners to prepare to learn. Create a safe environment where all are respected and know their contributions are valued. Help learners seek, recognize, and act on personal revelation. Focus on truths that lead to conversion and build faith in Jesus Christ. Encourage learners to share the truths they are learning. Find appropriate ways to express your love. Bear testimony often, and invite learners to share their feelings, experiences, and testimonies. Help learners find personal relevance in the doctrine of Jesus Christ. Invite learners to live what they are learning.

Overview of Christlike Teaching Focus on Jesus Christ Teach about Jesus Christ No Matter What You Are Teaching Help Learners Come unto Jesus Christ Emphasize the example of Jesus Christ. Help learners recognize the Lord's love, power, and mercy in their lives. Teach about the titles, roles, and attributes of Jesus Christ. Help learners strengthen their relationship with Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ. Look for symbols that testify of Jesus Christ. Help learners intentionally strive to be more like Jesus Christ. Principles of Christlike Teaching Love Those You Teach Teach by the Spirit Teach the Doctrine Invite Diligent Learning See learners the way God sees them. Prepare yourself spiritually. Learn the doctrine of Jesus Christ for yourself. Help learners take responsibility for their learning. Seek to know them— understand their circumstances, needs, and strengths. Always be ready to respond to spiritual promptings about the needs of learners. Teach from the scriptures and the words of latter-day prophets. Encourage learners to come to know the Savior by studying the gospel daily. Pray for them by name. Create settings and opportunities for learners to be taught by the Holy Ghost. Help learners seek, recognize, and understand truths in the scriptures. Invite learners to prepare to learn. Create a safe environment where all are respected and know their contributions are valued. Help learners seek, recognize, and act on personal revelation. Focus on truths that lead to conversion and build faith in Jesus Christ. Encourage learners to share the truths they are learning. Find appropriate ways to express your love. Bear testimony often, and invite learners to share their feelings, experiences, and testimonies. Help learners find personal relevance in the doctrine of Jesus Christ. Invite learners to live what they are learning.